---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Where I Began and Where I am Going
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-08-30
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Computer Science
---

I began my journey into computer science out of the sole purpose of earning the appropriate education that could provide me with a career that had a good outlook for job opportunities and high paying salary. About half way through my gap year, I decided to research distance learning degrees offered at Leeward Community College and ICS was included with some on-campus courses. Then I browsed through the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics to consider the specialization I might be interested in and software development was one of the top paying. So off my checklist, most ICS courses were online, check, software development has a good job outlook, check.

By now you must be thinking that I have no passion for computer science and I am only looking to go into a career that will provide me financial security. I am going to tell you why this is not entirely the case. Yes, I went into computer science for the money. However, I stayed and worked hard through two years of college because I fell in love with different aspects of the ICS courses I took. ICS 111, Introduction to Computer Science I is what kept me pursuing this pathway. In ICS 111, I learned Java coding and our first programming assignment was simply to display a message. Throughout each following programming course, I became more interested in seeing the end product of my own creations.

Other courses that sparked my interest aside from programming was ICS 129, Introduction to Databases, and ICS 270, Systems Analysis. ICS 129 sparked my interest in databases. I like improving my organizational skills and databases remind me of that, also so seeing the backend of a database and how information is stored intrigues me and kind of wants me to learn more through advanced courses. ICS 270, however, is more of the management and analysis side of creating systems and software. This course was designed to teach students how to use tools to analyze, design, develop, test, document and implement a system. Overall, I have many interests that I wish I could pursue all at once and these are just the top few.

This brings me back to what skills and experiences I hope to develop in the future. If I could follow all of my passions at one, I would, but for now my focus is mainly software development. Within this particular subject, I would like to expand my list of programming languages to include as many as I can learn. So far I am up to Java, C/C++, and currently working on JavaScript. I would also like to experience the chance to use my knowledge in a workplace setting. While I have previously worked in helpdesk troubleshooting, it is more interesting to work in a software development team or something similar.
